# Dynamic Matrix Multiplication

This project compares different methods of matrix multiplication: classical CPU multiplication, loop unrolling, GPU accelerated (CUDA), tiled multiplication, Strassen-Winograd algorithm.

### Prerequisites
* [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/) - Cross Platform Build System  
* C++ 11 Compiler (g++, MSVC(cl), clang++, etc)  
* [CUDA Compiler (nvcc)](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-zone) - GPGPU Interface Used

### Installing

## Part 1 and 2

With the prerequisites satisfied, run cmake in relative to the problem_2 root directory. It is recommended that a build directory is made, and the cmake build files are built in there. For example:
```
mkdir ./build #Make a build repository at ./problem_2/build  
cd build  
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release .. #Alternatively, cmake .. will also work.
```

Then run the platform specific build tool that is available in the build folder, such as make, ninja, or msvc.  
In the traditional linux system, run the following command:  
```
make
```

## Part 3 and 4
Part 3 and 4 executable is generated with cmake in from Part 1 and 2. However, it can almost be generated by the Makefile included.
Change directory to part 3 and 4 and then run make
```
cd "./part 3 and 4"
make
```

## Running the tests
*Only for part 1 and 2*
Build the project as specified in the **Installing** section.  
Run the following command at the root **build** directory:
```
make test
```
To run the tests directly, run the following in the root **build** directory:
```
./catch_test
```
*Only for part 1 and 2*
Build the project as specified in the **Installing** section for **Part 3 and 4** in the directory **part 3 and 4**.
Then run the following commands:
```
./main [Number of elements of a single dimension] [Number of iterations]
```
Eg:
```
 ./main 1024 10 
```
runs the program for 1024x1024 matrices for 10 iterations and shows the execution time and speed-up.
Also, multiplication of rectangular matrices can be performed.
Eg:
```
./main 124 236 234 10
```
multiplies a 124x236 matrix with 236x234 matrix for 10 iterations.
**But, Strassen's algorithm only works with square matrices, so the execution time and speed-up for that will not be shown.**

## Authors

* **Khalid Akash**
* **Bhargav Gokalgandhi**

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

